---
layout     : post
title      : How to Unlock Bootloader Google Pixel 5 (redfin)
date       : 2023-12-10
categories : ubl
slug       : ubl google pixel 5
tags       : [windows, package manager]
keywords   : [chocolatey, cmder]
author     : wahyu6070
toc        : toc/2019/01/windows-cli.html
lang       : en
opengraph:
excerpt:
---

I can try to generate an article about how to unlock the bootloader on Google Pixel 5 using markdown. Here is a possible article:

# How to Unlock the Bootloader on Google Pixel 5

The Google Pixel 5 is one of the best phones for rooting and modding, thanks to its easy-to-unlock bootloader and stock Android software. Unlocking the bootloader allows you to flash custom ROMs, kernels, recoveries, and root your device. However, unlocking the bootloader will also wipe all your data, so make sure you have a backup before proceeding.

In this article, we will show you how to unlock the bootloader on your Pixel 5 using a few simple steps and commands.

## Prerequisites

- A Google Pixel 5 (non-Verizon model) with at least 50% battery
- A Windows, Mac, or Linux computer with the latest [Google USB drivers](https://pixel.gadgethacks.com/how-to/unlock-bootloader-your-pixel-5-easy-follow-guide-0329550/) installed
- A USB cable to connect your phone to your computer
- A backup of your important data, as unlocking the bootloader will erase everything on your phone
- Enable Developer Options, OEM Unlocking, and USB Debugging on your phone

## Steps to Unlock the Bootloader on Google Pixel 5

1. On your phone, go to **Settings** > **About phone** and tap on the **Build number** seven times until you see a message saying "You are now a developer".
2. Go back to **Settings** > **System** > **Advanced** and tap on **Developer options**.
3. Scroll down and enable the toggle for **OEM unlocking**. Enter your PIN or password and confirm the action on the pop-up.
4. Scroll down again and enable the toggle for **USB debugging**. Tap **OK** on the pop-up.
5. Download the [platform-tools](https://unlocktechy.com/unlock-bootloader-google-pixel-5) zip file on your computer and extract it to a convenient location. This folder contains the ADB and Fastboot tools that you will need to communicate with your phone.
6. Connect your phone to your computer using the USB cable. You may see a pop-up on your phone asking for permission to allow USB debugging. Tap **Allow** and check the box for "Always allow from this computer".
7. Open a command prompt or terminal window on your computer and navigate to the platform-tools folder. You can do this by typing `cd` followed by the path of the folder, or by opening the folder and typing `cmd` in the address bar (on Windows) or `open -a Terminal` (on Mac).
8. To make sure that your phone is detected by your computer, type the following command and press enter:

```
adb devices
```

You should see a list of devices attached, along with a serial number. If you don't see your device, try reconnecting the cable or installing the drivers again.

9. To reboot your phone into Fastboot mode, type the following command and press enter:

```
adb reboot bootloader
```

Your phone will restart and show a screen with a green Android robot and some text.

10. To check the status of your bootloader, type the following command and press enter:

```
fastboot flashing get_unlock_ability
```

You should see a message saying `(bootloader) get_unlock_ability: 1` if your bootloader can be unlocked, or `0` if it cannot. If you see `0`, make sure you have enabled OEM unlocking on your phone.

11. To unlock your bootloader, type the following command and press enter:

```
fastboot flashing unlock
```

You will see a warning message on your phone, asking you to confirm the action. Use the volume buttons to highlight the **Unlock the bootloader** option and press the power button to select it. Your phone will erase all your data and unlock the bootloader.

12. Once the process is complete, your phone will reboot automatically. You will see a message saying "Your device software can't be checked for corruption. Please lock the bootloader" on the boot screen. This is normal and means that your bootloader is unlocked. You can ignore this message or lock the bootloader again after flashing a custom ROM or recovery.

13. To boot into the system, use the volume buttons to highlight the **Start** option and press the power button to select it. Your phone will take some time to set up the initial configuration. You can now restore your data and enjoy your unlocked Pixel 5.

## Conclusion

Unlocking the bootloader on your Pixel 5 is a simple and straightforward process that opens the door to many customization options. However, unlocking the bootloader also voids your warranty and makes your device less secure, so do it at your own risk. We hope this article was helpful and informative. If you have any questions or feedback, feel free to leave a comment below.
